So the third method of positioning grid items
on the grid, is by actually naming entire areas.
So let's see how we can do that.
So let's again start by commenting out this code here,
so that we can again start from scratch.
Or actually, not really from scratch, but simply by using
this code that we had in the first example.
OK
So, method number three is to actually name grid areas.
OK, so, how do we do that?
Well, we simply use the grid template areas property.
And now, this is probably going to look really weird to you.
OK, because I remember that when I first saw this,
I found it really strange the way it worked.
But anyway, this is how we name grid areas.
So, we write a couple of strings, and in there
we basically give each grid cell a name.
OK, so in our case we have a four by four grid.
So in the first string we give
the first four grid cells four names.
OK, and what are our first four cells?
Well, it's this, this, this, and this.
Right, and all of them are for the header.
So let's give them a name,
and I'm simply going to call them head.
And this is how it works, so head, head, head, and head.
So the four cells will be called head,
and that's because we want the header
to be in all of these four cells.
So basically, this first string defines
the first row of our grid.
OK, now we hit enter, then we come here to this exact place,
and actually it doesn't have to be this exact place,
but I like to do it like this because it's easier to see,
and then we need to call the next four cells.
So this one, this one, this one, and this one.
So, let's call these three here box,
and then the last one side.
So in here I like to use the really small name,
like as small as possible, so that it doesn't take
too much space up here in the declaration.
So that it's also not too hard to write,
because there's usually a lot of repetition.
So you see box, box, box, and then the last one is side.
And so basically this template area here just creates
a representation with text of how
our final layout is gonna look like.
So what do we have here in the third row?
So basically these three cells.
Well, all we have here is the main.
So main, main, and main, and then
on the side we have the side bar.
So these two here will be the side bar,
these three will be the main content,
and these three will be small boxes, individually.
Alright, and then down here, which is the last row,
and so it's the last string, we have four times the footer.
So let's simply use foot here.
So foot, foot, foot, and foot.
And that's it.
So that is our template string,
then at the end don't forget to semicolon.
OK, so again this looks a bit weird, I know,
but this is actually a great way of placing items
on the grid, because it's really simple.
Once you have this declaration here finished,
then all we have to do is, to actually place
the items, like this.
So let's first delete all of this here,
so that we go back to our initial state.
Like this, OK?
So this is how it looks like without
any placement whatsoever.
And so let's now position the header.
So remember this grid area property
that I showed you before.
Back then we used it to put the column start,
the column end, the row start, and do the row end.
So these four numbers, remember that?
Right in the first or second lecture of the section I think.
But there actually another way of using this property here,
and that is called for the template areas
that be defined here.
So remember that for the header, we called it head,
and so all I have to do now is write head,
without any quotes here, and that's it.
So it places this item here on this entire area
that I defined to be the head.
So imagine I put something else here, like side for example.
Then let's see what's happened.
OK, so now it only occupies these three cells here,
because the head is only in these three.
OK, that makes sense, right?
So let's put it back to head here.
So now you will see it going back.
Then these boxes here, they're actually automatically
positioned, such as before, so let's go to the side bar.
And it's very simple again, we don't have to think
like we had to think with the other methods.
All we have to do now is to say the name of the area,
which is side, so we here are again with
the side bar exactly where it should be.
Right, so perfect.
The same thing here, main, and the same thing here,
actually just foot.
And that's it.
So our layout is complete again.
So you see that this is like
a completely different philosophy.
In this case, we first think about layout,
so where all of these items should be placed,
and then all we have to do is to give
the names here to each of the items.
While with the two other methods that we did before,
we used the names of the lines or the numbers,
which is quite similar.
Then, for each of these items here,
we had to think where to position them.
Now, when we create this template area definition here,
we need to be careful and create a complete
representation of our grid, OK?
So if it's a bit different at all,
then all of this is not going to work.
The let me, for example, just delete this here,
and you will see that it's not working at all anymore.
So, this look just like really weird.
So it's not working at all, and just because I didn't
really fill up all the sixteen cells that we have, right?
So we have four columns, four rows, when four times four
makes sixteen, and so in here I have to have sixteen names.
OK, and so let's go back to what we had.
Now, another thing that we can do here with
this template areas, is to actually leave empty cells.
And all we have to do for that, is instead just delete it,
is to put a dot.
So let's see what happens then.
Well, what happens is that this box here
then moves up to this empty cell.
And that's because we didn't really position
these boxes here, right?
And so that's what happens.
So if you really wanted to leave this empty,
we would have to then place theses three boxes here.
So let's actually do that, that shouldn't be too hard.
So it's small box one, two, and three, and we can probably
do this all with the same selector.
So two.
And then the number three.
And so grid area should be box.
So let's take a look at that.
And that's actually not quite what we want,
because the template area definition is not really correct.
So what we say here is that this area here should
all be the same, which in fact it is not.
So let's actually, to make this better, or to make
it correct actually, give this different names.
And so what we have to do now here, grid-area,
should be box-1.
So let's get rid of that.
So a number two for this one.
Oh, what's that?
And number three for this one.
Yep, so now it's correct, everything is correct, right?
And we have this empty cell here like we defined.
And we could put another one, for example, here if you
wanted, and then the header would just span these two cells.
And of course, that's entirely possible,
we can have empty cells in our grids without any problem.
So if that's the layout we are looking for,
then CSS grid gives us the total flexibility
to do exactly like that.
Alright, and that's actually it.
So this is all I had to tell you about naming grid areas,
and how to position grid items on the grid.
So these other three methods,
and they can be used in different situations.
For example this one here with the template areas,
I think it's really great for smaller layouts like this one.
So, when I have to build a small layout,
then I would always use something like this.
I think it's really, really straight forward.
So keep that in mind, for a small simple layout
I would say on something like four by four, or five by five,
then it's completely fine to do it like this.
But if we have a huge layout, like a complete page,
maybe with 12 columns, or 15 columns, and 10 or 15 lines,
then it becomes very unpractical
to write out all of these areas.
It's much simpler to simply name the grid lines and do
it like this, like I showed you in the previous lecture.
But for small layouts, again, I think
this one here is perfect.
OK, and that wraps up this project, so project number two,
and I think that you already did a huge progress.
So actually, you already know many
of the important stuff about CSS grids.
You're already ready to build some simple layouts
using grids, and that's fantastic, right?
Now there's some more advanced stuff to learn of course,
and we're going to do that throughout
the rest of the section.
But for now it's great that you've come this far, that you
made all this progress, and maybe you can even try
to build something right now.
Maybe just a small example, to see if you got all of this
and if you really understood it, OK?